Feature/transpile target cli (#8)
rahildoshi97/apalache: docs/src/adr/025adr-transpile-target.md

> # ADR-025: Transpile-target

Reviewer: "Transpilation to constrained Horn clauses"

| authors     | last revised |
|-------------|-------------:|

> | Rahil Doshi |   2023-03-10 |

Reviewer: The last update was in March?

> | Rahil Doshi |   2023-03-10 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rahil Doshi, Rodrigo Otoni | 2023-03-10 |
```

**Table of Contents**

- [Summary (Overview)](#summary)
- [Context (Problem)](#context)
- [Options (Alternatives)](#options)
- [Solution (Decision)](#solution)
- [Consequences (Retrospection)](#consequences)

## Summary

> <!-- Statement to summarize, following the following formula: -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This ADR describes the support for arithmetic operators as well as an alternate (experimental) transpilation taget for SMT encoding called CHC.
> This is an extension of an already available transpilation target in Apalache called VMT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ADR describes the support for transpilation from (a subset of) TLA+ to constrained [Horn clauses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horn_clause) (CHC). The support added is based on the transpilation machinery targeting VMT that was implemented following in [ADR-016](https://apalache.informal.systems/docs/adr/016adr-retla.html).
```

> ## CLI Transpilation Target Option

Reviewer: Move all this to after "Context"

> CHC is to be an alternate transpilation target to the already available VMT option in Apalache.
> Given this, a new option is to be added to the `transpile` command of the CLI. The default transpilaton target will be
> the existing one (VMT). The option description is shown below. 
> Added flag for `--transpile-target` but there is no envvar equivalent yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CHC is to be an alternate transpilation target to the already available VMT option in Apalache.
Given this, a new option is to be added to the `transpile` command of the CLI.
Added `--transpile-target` flag (no envvar equivalent yet), whose default value will be `vmt`.
The option description is shown below. 
```

```

> --transpile-target : the transpile targets: vmt, chc (experimental), default: vmt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--transpile-target : the transpilation target: vmt, chc (experimental), default: vmt
```

- Add `ReTLACombinedPredicateForCHC` for combined predicate to be used in `ReTLAToCHCModule`.
- Add `ReTLALanguagePredForCHC` to include the set of `TlaBoolOper` and `TlaArithOper`.
- Add new rules for CHC including `BoolRuleForCHC` for `TLABoolOper` such as `and`, `or`, `not`, `implies` and `TlaArithOper` such as `lt`, `le`, `gt`, `ge`. 
- Add new `IntRuleForCHC` to class `ToTermRewriterImplForCHC` which is a subclass of `ToTermRewriterForCHC`.
- `IntRuleForCHC` adds support for `TlaArithOper` such as `plus`, `minus`, `mult`, `div` and `ToTermRewriterImplForCHC` is the `ToTermRewriterForCHC` implementation from reTLA to SMT terms.
- `ToTermRewriterForCHC` defines a translation from TLA+ to SMT Terms.
- Add new value `chcWriter` in `ReTLAToCHCTranspilePassImpl` to transpile reTLA to CHC.
- Add new values to `TlaExToCHCWriter` to handle the last step of transpiling: convert the TLA spec to assemble the `.chc` output file.
- Add `TermToCHCWriter` to manages the translation of terms to strings, to be written to the final `.chc` output file.
- `ReTLAToCHCModule` binds all the CHC classes together like `ReTLAToVMTModule` for VMT classes.

> - The infrastructure changes made for the `chc` transpilation type mirror the ones made for the `vmt` one.

Reviewer: are all these changes only for the CLI? It doesn't seem so

>   See [PR -----] for details.

Reviewer: update

## Testing

### Unit test

- Add file `TestReTLALanguagePredForCHC` to add support for integer expressions for CHC based on `TestReTLALanguagePred` for VMT.

### Integration test

> - Add `NoArithOper.tla` to test for `--transpile-target=vmt` flag.

Reviewer: is this a new file or a modification of an existing file?

- Add `ArithOper.tla` to test for `--transpile-target=chc` flag to check support for arithmetic operations.

> ## Summary

Reviewer: Summarize the goal of the transpilation

> <!-- Statement to summarize, following the following formula: -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
